**Question:**

What is the difference between a compiler and an interpreter?

**Answer:**

A compiler takes a program (one source language) and translates it into a another
program in an another language (target langauge). Errors during translation process
are reported directly. For example: the language Elm is translated into JavaScript
during compilation.

An interperter takes a program (one source language) and input, and executes it
directly. For example: the language JavaScript is interperted by the browser.
It can take input from the user and will execute the corresponding instructions.

---

**Question:**

What are the advantages of (a) a compiler over an interpreter (b) an interpreter
over a compiler?

**Answer:**

a) Errors are caught during translation. That means that if it compiles the code
is valid and can be executed. In the case of Elm does that mean you have a sane
target program that can be executed with input and very few errors occure during
execution. For most of the cases the a compiled program is faster than interperted
program. Because when interperting the compiler has to execute the code statement
for statement and translate it on the fly.


b) Interperters take a source program and input directly. You don't need to wait
for a compiler, which can be very slow sometimes, for you to see any results.
Execution is slower than compiled code. This is because it executes a program
statement by statement.

---

**Question:**

What advantages are there to a language-processing system in which the compiler
produces assembly language rather than machine language?

**Answer:**

The assembly langauge is easier to produce and debug. The assembler could take
the assembly language and make it the program work for specific hardware.

---

**Question:**

A compiler that translates a high-level language into another high-level language
is called a source-to-source translator. What advantages are there to using C as
a target language for a compiler?

**Answer:**

The C language is already well established and runs on many platforms. By taking
advantage of this you can make a program that runs on many machines which are
capable of running C code. Also translating to C would be much easier than
compiling down to machine code.

---

**Question:**

Describe some of the tasks that an assembler needs to perform.

**Answer:**

- assembly language to machine code
- creates object code (a sequence of statements or instructions in machine code, e.g. binary)
- calculates constant expressions (e.g. code that does not change: 1 + 1 is translated into 2)
- make optimizations
- reserve symbolic names for memory locations
